Today's episode is brought to
you by Datadog a cloud
scale monitoring and analytics platform
that unifies metrics, logs, traces,
and more in a single
pane of glass data dog
offers 350 plus integrations with
popular technologies and out of
the box dashboards. So you
can easily monitor every layer
of your stack. Plus watchdog
provides algorithmic anomaly detection and
forecasting, reducing alert, fatigue, and
allowing your engineers to focus
on what really matters. Visit
bitly.com/data dog shirt. That's bitly.com/datadog
shirt, and try Datadog out
for yourself with a free
14 day trial and receive
a complimentary t-shirt. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another Hansel minutes. And today
I'm talking with Nancy from
Canada. You are a senior
it security analyst. You work
for the government. That sounds
like a big deal. It
is, it is. It's a
fun thing. I've been in
the government since the beginning
of my career. So it's
definitely a fun place to
work where there's a lot
of challenges and I try
to help and do, do
what I can to help.
And you work on things
like the security assessment and
authorization programs and making sure
that, you know, information systems
are secure. And I learned
about you when I was
learning about the open web
application security project, which I
think a lot of people
who are listening will know
as Oh wasp, they will
C O w a S
P in all caps. And
they usually see this like
once a year. I think
regular people think about OSTP
once a year. Why is
that? Yes. Well, because we're
known for the O us
top 10 list and the
top 10 list actually comes
out every three years. Yes.
It comes out every three
years and it's a list
of vulnerabilities ways your applications
can be vulnerable. So it's
an awareness piece. It's not
comprehensive, but it's to remind
people that applications are, are
vulnerable and that you may
have firewalls. You may have
a great infrastructures, but you
are still vulnerable if you
have application. And these are
the top 10 ways how
you are vulnerable. So it's
an awareness piece. It's almost
a scare tactic to let
you know that you need
to look at your application
and start building them securely.
Yeah. It's a big deal.
When I, when you look
at it, there's actually a
wasp on the front, like
of the one from 2013,
there's like a picture of
a loss, but it's just
like, and then it says
hop 10. And it's a
whole list of like a,
it almost reads as like
a document of shame because
I'm looking at it going,
Oh gosh, I didn't do
that attack back there. And
I didn't think about that.
Yes. I've been starting to
talk about it as if
you were going to the
doctor and he wants to
shock you into thinking about
your health. So he's going
to tell you about, do
you know what you could
capture all the diseases and
that thought things like that,
it's all their vulnerabilities, all
your apps, other vulnerable vulnerabilities
that your apps could have,
but then it's not enough,
right? It's not enough to
scare you it to, to
make you think that it's
important. You need an action
plan. You need something to
do after that. Once you
realize that that you are
vulnerable. So you, you, you
have to come up with
a plan. And that's what
I'd like to talk about.
All the other projects that
can help you build great
application and great software, and
that we have also at
Owasso. And the first piece
is called the proactive controls,
which is the sister document
of, of the top 10.
It's telling you well, before
you to have a, a
great program to build secure
application, here are the 10
controls that you should think
about when you're building software.
And that's also is not
comprehensive. That also is an
awareness piece, but it's a
more positive one to, to
encourage you to take action.
So I would really encourage
people. I know that the
top 10 is very popular
and some people take it
as a framework, but really
important is, is to take
the overall picture of your
program and make it better.
And that I think the
way to start is a
proactive controls. Yeah. I think
that the top 10 critical
application security risks, the OSHA
top 10 has become so
popular that it overshadows the
important things. And I'm hearing
you say that the top
10 is really, you know,
reactive. If you've got yourself
in a situation like that
already, maybe you didn't be
proactive and have the control.
Exactly. And it does have
the top thing. I don't
want to criticize too much
stops because it does have
important information. It's not only,
it's not only a less,
if you go into the
document, it actually defines the,
the vulnerability where you can
find it, how you can
fix it and reference other
documents with an auth that
can help you. So it's
again, an awareness piece to
let you know, Hey, this
is important. You're building software.
Let's make sure that, that
you're not that you're building
Nancy, building them securely and
go to those other documents
that we have. Those other
projects I know office can
help you do that. And
that's what I want people
to know about the proactive
controls is definitely one of
them. And if you go
into the proactive controls, the
first requirement or the first
control is as defined security
requirement. I don't know if
you've heard, if you and
multiple security talks, you'll hear
to shift left, push left
to think about security early
on in your software life
lifecycle. Well, the first requirement
is to define the re
the first control is to
define requirements. And we also
have a list that helps
you go deeper, which is
called ASVs. I forget now,
what is that? An application
security verification. And that's the
list of hundreds of controls
that goes into different categories
on, on how to build
secure software. So it doesn't
want, it wouldn't be the
document you would start with
because it's so comprehensive and
it has so many controls,
but it's definitely a document
that you want as a
reference to start building secure
software.  yeah, I'm looking
at the, the act proactive
controls and reading through this.
And I'm realizing that honestly,
I I'm a little bit
ashamed all this time. I've
been reading the top 10
and at the bottom
of every single one of
them is references and links
to specific CWE entries, specific
cheat sheets, specific development, and
testing guides all this time.
This huge like resource has
been underneath me. And I
was just skimming a top
10 list. So I'm a
little bit, It's true. And
you're not the only one
vendors are referencing it all
the time, either talking about
it to scare, but they
don't really read all the
details. And there's a lot
of information and it referenced
other documentation that you can
leverage. And you've mentioned the
cheat sheet. This is my
favorite project, because I think
it's rappers out here. They
have about 60 cheat sheets
on different topics. And you
can really go deep and
say, okay, I want to
learn more. I've heard that
session management is a thing,
well, this is cheat sheet
for that. And it defines
what session management is, why
you should care and what
to do about it. And
you can really focus in
focus on a topic specifically,
and it can be also
language specific. So I would
really encourage people to go
through the cheat sheet and
find the ones that are
relevant to them and find
applicable ways to, to, to,
to take D the advice
to heart. I'm noticing also,
one of the things that
I didn't realize is that
OSP the, both the top
10 and the other documents
look backwards in time and
show you what's changed. So
like things that have merged
moving forward, things that have
become easy to solve against
that may have been difficult
in the past. Things like
insufficient transport layer protection go
from being a major risk
to being something that's kind
of a standard today. Yes,
yes. And one of the
practice control, I believe is
number two. I believe it's
to use secure frameworks, right?
Sometimes just by choosing the
correct tools you are covered,
right? Sometimes it's old technologies,
old, all the ways of
doing things that make you
formidable. And just by updating,
just by patching, just by
using something modern, you take
care of a lot of
things. So it's, it's a
good thing to, to look
at that as well to
say, Hey, maybe I'm not
even vulnerable to these things.
And also that it's a
living document. That's why we
update it every three years
and it could be useful
every year, but it's a
huge effort. So every three
years we go into the
community, ask for their opinion
on what should be on
the list, what date they've
seen in their software. And
it changes because in 2013,
and now in 2000, and
the latest version is from
2017 and there'll be a
new one in 2020. And
the list will probably be
different hopefully, but injections has
been on the list forever.
I think since the inception
of, of the top 10.
So sometimes the problems we
know about are not that
easy to fix. Yeah. One
of the things that I
really like about the way
that OSTP expresses all of
these different things is it
has the AWSP risk rating
methodology that talks about the,
the, the threat agents, the
attack vectors, and whether they're
easy or hard. So then
you can make a decision
when you're trying to secure
application about whether something is
really prevalent and you have
to balance all of these
things, its impact, its detectability
and how hard it is
or how easy it is
for someone to actually try
to exploit it. Yes, it's
very important in everything, all
the controls that you want
to apply, you want to
prioritize it. You can't, some,
you can't sometimes do it
all and you want to
be able to find a
way to prioritize on what
you want to work on.
And that information helps you
saying, okay, maybe we should
focus on that. And instead
of doing a lot of
things poorly, let's focus on
the, the, the vulnerability that
maybe if we fix would
have the most impact. Sometimes
when I go and see
presentations on security, it becomes
overwhelming. Like I realized that
covering my eyes and saying,
this is too scary to
think about is this bad,
but don't, you feel completely
overwhelmed. I mean, we're being
attacked from all directions constantly.
Absolutely. As I feel that
I feel the same way
and that's, that's when I
need to stop and say,
okay, let's see what you
can do that has the
most impact and stop thinking
that you'll fix everything. Cause
you, you can't, but focus
on what will have the
most impact and try to
find repeatable ways to fix
issues. And that's all you
can do. Well, I, when
we think about being proactive,
so if we, if we
think about the proactive controls,
some of these things we've
been told for many years,
like it says 2018, cause
it's quite fresh, but validate
inputs in code and escape
data. I was definitely encoding
and escaping data 20 years
ago, but we still see
these mistakes today. Yeah. But
I also think, cause I'm
involved. Well, I I'm involved
in my own chapter here
in Ottawa and we're hosting
a secure coding workshop for
the Ottawa university because we
realized that in you can
graduate from a computer science
degree with a computer science
degree and never have a
class on secure coding. So
even if those things, sometimes
I think everybody knows what
I know because I'm involved
in a loss and I
hear it all the time.
But if you actually talk
to people who learn how
to code, it's not something
that they've been taught so
needs to be repeated and
it needs to be, we
need to stop talking to
other security professionals or people
that already know and say,
yes, yes, yes. But go
to, I'll go to security
conferences to tell people to
shift laughter or to use
tool from OSTP. But we
need to be with the
devs, go to development conferences
and talk about these things.
I think we need to
stop talking to other security
professionals about what to do,
because we know the, to
make sure that the people
that need to know that
are actually applying these things
need to know about that
as well. Sick of waiting
for your CIA test to
pass or having to manage
different CII servers for different
teams using Buildkite. You can
run fast and reliable CIA
pipelines for every type of
project, whether it's backend tests,
mobile apps, or even custom
hardware build kites agent helps
you scale to thousands of
parallel jobs and your secrets
and source code never leave
your infrastructure. There's great documentation,
a clean web UI and
plugins for different types of
tools visit Buildkite that's K
I T e.com/hanselman for a
14 day free trial and
see how Shopify has scaled
from 300 to 1500 engineers
while keeping their build times
under five minutes, that's built
kite.com/hanselman. Let's dig a little
bit more into shift left.
You mentioned it at the
beginning. And I think that
not everyone understands it. And
for some people who might
be not have English as
their first language shift left
is kind of confusing. What
are we sh what is,
how things work today and
what are we shifting to
the left when it comes
to the software development model?
Okay. So when we're developing
software, you know, the, the
life cycle starts with, you
know, the idea and then
having security or requirements for
your, for your idea. And
then you go into development.
So we, you start from
the left to the right
and complete your project. And
often we only think about
security once you're at the
end of a project, and
that's not that doesn't help
you because it will cost
you a lot more in
energy and resources and money
to fix something. Once you're
at the end of this
project. So we're trying to
start that the beginning, which
is at the left of
the life cycle at the
beginning of the life cycle,
where you, you put your,
you asked for your security
requirement, it's basically asking someone
to pass a test, but
only giving them, you know,
what they should have studied
for at the end of
the test. It's not fair.
Why are you telling me
what to fix in my
application? Only at the end,
when I finished building everything,
if I had known these
things at the beginning, well,
I would have designed my
solution differently, but we're not
that great at doing that
because I've heard of shift
left, but at least 15
years ago, and probably before
that as well. That's a
really great though. I'm thinking
about If I've had someone
build a house and the
house is beautiful and we're
about to move the new
family into the house. And
we say, Oh, we need
locks. You're like, Oh, locks,
Oh, I'm gonna have to
redesign the doors and the
walls near the doors. And
like the windows and like
locks. I wish you told
me about locks when we
built the house. Gosh. Yeah.
Or even worse, like adding
suddenly saying, Oh, where I
have five children. Maybe I
need another bathroom. Yes. We
can make it happen. But
it's going to be awkward.
We might have to move
a room and make a
room smaller and then add
a wall where it wasn't
meant to be a wall
and then things. And you're
destroying things that were not
broken, but you know, because
of your, you last minute
design, you need to move.
That is expensive and it's
not pretty either. It might
look awkward. It's clunky. Yeah.
And, and, and I'll put
it in the link in
the show notes. There's a
report from IBM that says
that if you find a
defect like that, especially as
security defect, it can be
like a hundred times more
expensive to fix if we're
in maintenance as opposed to
when you're in design. Absolutely.
Absolutely. But it's, it's something
easy to say. You know,
I've heard shift left before,
but it's funny how we
have a hard time doing
that in practice. It's a
SP especially when things are
being built very quickly and
DevOps and agile, we were
having a hard time putting
the security requirements in a
waterfall environment where things were
a bit slower and more
predictable. Now they're asking us
to go even faster and
security has a hard time
to catch up  and
I also want to call
out again that you mentioned
you're in your local chapter.
And if we go up
and search for OSB, local
chapters, there's this wonderful Google
map. There are hundreds of
chapters all over the place,
hopefully one near you. If
you're listening and you go
actually, and you can start
your own local chapter and
find speakers and, and, and
get involved. Yes. The last
time I checked, I believe
there was 221 chapters in
the world globally. And 67
of them were in the
U S and six active
chapters in Canada. And every
week, every month, new chapters
are being, are being created
around the world. And that's
one entry point to, to
get involved with us, but
you can also get involved
within projects. There's a bunch
of open source projects and
the projects I spend time
talking about the proactive control,
top 10, those are very
mature projects with clear processes
and repeatable and a good
team. And they're called flagship
projects, but there's a bunch
of other projects that are
in incubator, incubators or labs
that are, you know, not
flagship, not as mature, but
where we're doing really, really
interesting stuff, right. And building
tools and experimenting. And I
would really encourage you to
go through that list of
project and see if there's
something that's interesting to you
and if you would want
to, to contribute. And it's
also important to point out
that  is a worldwide
nonprofit. So everything is free.
The materials are free. There's
not any endorsements. This is
not a commercial entity. That's
trying to sell anyone. Anything.
Anyone who wants to get
involved can get involved. Absolutely
not. We really have to
police that. However, there's a
lot of businesses that wanted
to rub shoulders with us,
but we are a nonprofit
and we don't endorse any
specific businesses. For sure. I
have a bunch of sponsors
because we have conferences at
least two to four conferences,
global conferences every year, that
where, where you can get
to meet a bunch of
members of the community and
get access to training at
very reasonable prices and a
bunch of 'em and get
introduced to new projects as
well. And different talks about
application security. Is this a
good place for someone who
is interested and maybe they're
a student, or they want
to move into information, security
is going to their own
local chapter, a good place
for them to get started
in their career as well.
Absolutely. Yes. Depending on the
chapter there ran a bit
independently, but you can often
find mentors at that's where
I've found one of my
mentors and where, how I
changed department within the government
once was by meeting my,
my boss at a no
loss chapter meeting. So definitely
getting involved in your chapter
as a, as a good
way to get started. And
it's fun and they have
pizza and pop for free
and a bunch of information.
So why not? Why not?
Another thing that I think
is really cool about you,
that I've when I searched
around and learn about what
you do is that you
love certifications. You've got a
bunch of sort of in
addition to your other bona
Fides. And do you feel
that certifications are important to
young people? Cause I constantly
get people asking on Twitter.
If they think that a
certification will help them get
that next job or that
next opportunity. Well, there are
multiple reasons for someone to
get certification and for sure,
for certain jobs, especially consultants
and in Canada, I can
speak to for Canada for
consultant, the CISP for example,
certification is essential because it
gives you points in the
competition to make sure that
you get that contract. So
it can be somewhere to
a checkpoint for, for HR,
right? But it's not only
that it's also a good
way to get started too,
in a different topic that
you might not have learned
in school, but you know,
you want to learn you,
you want to invest security,
but never, never had a
class for it. And you're
out of school, then that's
a good way to transition
and to enter the topic
and get the basics and
get your security plus and
get. And now there's different
certification about cloud and about
Kubernetes. And they're getting more
and more hands on there.
It's no longer about learning
a bunch of definitions and
learning question dumps, answer, and
then going through a tests
it's really practical and hands
on learning and something I
say that might not be
applicable in the U S
but in Canada as well,
is that you're going to
search for the certification for
the skills. So you can
go through the curriculum without
having to go for the
test. Cause I do understand
it. It is expensive to
get a certification, sometimes a
other material to learn, to
go through the test and
then the maintenance fees. If
you don't need it, if
it's not, if you don't
need it as a job
requirement, and it's not a
indie HR checklist, go through
the material, learn what you
need to learn and move
on to something else. I
think it's, you don't have
to reinvent the wheel. It's
a way to, to get
started on a new topic.
So it sounds like it's
not the perfect answer for
someone who maybe doesn't have
a degree or a background,
but it is a checklist,
a check box on the,
on the, on the, on
the way on the way
forward. I think sometimes people
think that it's sort of
certification will unlock an opportunity
that a, it wouldn't have
unlocked without it. Sometimes it
does put your, your CV
on top of the list
to show that you have
an interest, especially if you
graduated from a CS degree.
And then on top of
that, you, you went for
certification. It shows that you
have continued interest in, in
your profession and you're investing
in your education. So it
it's a differentiator. You can
get on top of the
list, but it doesn't mean
that you, because you have
a certification that you automatically
get a job and a
good HR process. We'll know
if you only have certification,
but don't practice. You don't
have hands on experience. They,
they will find out really
clear really quickly. Now you
have a program that you're
trying out in Canada called
secure this cert, can you
tell me about that? Yes.
Yes. Well, like you said,
I'm a bit obsessed with
certification and they are expensive.
So me and Jenny gay,
my co founder for secure
that cert, we S we
started a community where we
gather people. We have a
meet up group and we
ask people who want to
come and study with us
for a different type of
certification. And we have, we
run three groups to this
semester, the security plus CIS
CSP. And we started to
pen testing fundamentals and sort
of people that, you know,
want to get started in
a new topic or in
their studies. They've been talking
about it, but they need
the accountability. Cause you can
always do self study, but
starting alone, sometimes it's intimidating.
You don't know where to
start. Well, we have a
game plan. We, we have
a schedule, we have a
curriculum, we know what we'll
do every night. And we
meet once a week for
10, 12 or 16 weeks,
depending on the curriculum. And
we go through the material
and we have quiz questions
and we go through them
and hands-on examples. So it's
the support and accountability and
guidance that you need sometimes
to, to move forward. If,
if you're unable to do
it on your own or,
or doesn't, don't have the
motivation, It seems like you're
a big proponent of community
and allowing people to, and
encouraging people to get in,
get involved. I'm, I'm hearing
everything that you're talking about
is about groups and community
and people coming together to
make something bigger that they
couldn't do just by themselves.
It sounds like you don't
want people to just be
studying alone in their, in
their home to try to
pass all these tests. Yes.
Well, because you, you don't
get challenged really. You don't
get exposed. I feel like
it's, it's a bit like
traveling where you, you think,
you know it all when
you're alone with your book
and you're like, yes, I
understand it. But when you
actually are able to teach
it to someone else or
listen to someone else, explain
it to you with a
different perspective, suddenly you see
you have a different perspective.
Exactly. And he learned a
lot more. And part of
the study group is teaching
to others as well. Right.
And we, we know that
when we take the time
to understand the material well,
enough to be able to
teach it to somebody else,
you understand a lot more
what you're doing and what
you're trying to, to aren't.
So, yeah. Have you been
as active in community the
entire time of your career?
Or did you like, did
you come into it and
software and security and go,
Oh, I'm going to find
a community or did you
discover it part of the
way in your journey? I
discovered it when I I'm
trying to think back, I
guess. So it was when
I joined security, when I
moved that actually for my
first security job, I moved
from Montreal to Ottawa. And
my first event was an
ISA information system, security association
chapter. We had one in
Ottawa and I got involved
in that. And from there
I discovered other group and
then London on Oahu where
I, I, I volunteered most
of my time and also
secure that search. So yeah,
w once I discovered it,
maybe a bit later in
my career, I didn't stop
and I'm very, very involved
and I feel like it
keeps me motivated and, and
makes it fun. Right. I
don't think that, eh, it
should be all worked and
you can learn and still
have fun. Do you think
that this is something that
everyone can do? It sounds
like you found that natural.
A lot of people struggle
to get any, to get
involved when, when you and
I hear on our podcasts
say, Oh, well, you should
just go to a meetup.
It'll be great. That can
be Yes. Sure. And, you
know, you find your tribe,
you find your community and
you try it out and
see if it fits you.
And it might, and it
might not, you know, and,
and it's okay. But like
I said earlier, there's other
ways to get involved. If
you're more of an introvert
and don't want to go
out there, you can get
involved in a project and
you don't have to leave
your house for that just
goes through the, the inventory
of all the projects and
see where you want to,
all the projects, won't help
all the projects won't volunteer.
So just see what what's
good for you. What's interesting
to you and, and contribute.
And that's the way to
build the community online as
well, and not having to
go out there. I think
that's a really important reminder.
I think that was an
important reminder. I think that
sometimes people think that like,
well, if I don't have
the ability to take your,
get repository and clone it,
build it, fix it and
send a pull request in
an hour. Then I'm not
a good community member, but
documentation organizing mailing lists, there's
so much to be done
that can be done from
your home for free And
different skillset as well. So,
and so many project calls
also at OSF, I notice
are, are led by very
technical people that might not
have a, you know, the
marketing skills needed to, to
let people know about their
projects, about what they offer
or a, you know, social
media or documentation or copywriting.
So if these are things
that you're good at, you
can definitely reach out to
a project and, and say,
Hey, I want to help
you doing that. And just
within my community, within my
chapter, the chapter leader, no,
the project leader of the
secure coding dojo, which is
a platform where you learn
to code securely, you know,
he's busy building the platform.
And I volunteered to, to,
to start the event to
start our workshop and say,
Hey, within the community, we
could have a workshop. So
you can, I know that
I have, I have those
skills that I can compliment
other people's skills and create
events for my community. So
get involved in a way
when you see a need
asking and contribute. For sure.
That's really cool. I appreciate
that. That you're, you're just
telling us that OA has
been, the security community can
be very welcoming forward for
both new people, but also
for people who might have
five, 10, 20 years in,
in their industry, but they
maybe haven't yet discovered their
tribe, the encouragement to kind
of go out there and
try to find your tribe
is so important. Yes, yes.
And if it doesn't work
the first time, it doesn't
mean that it won't work
every time. And that there
are different projects to get
involved and there are different
groups you can get involved
in. So of course, you
know, when you're there, it's
a bunch of volunteers or
passionate people sometimes, you know,
they're the environment. You, you
can fall into a group.
That's not that, you know,
encouraging, but that's an mean
that it represents the whole
community. Either you just move
along, you, there definitely are
opportunities to focus on the
work, focus on technology and,
and stay away from the
drama. Yeah, definitely. And I
liked the idea of work,
study groups, the idea that
getting some people together and
studying, we've all done this
before in school, you get
a work study group together
and you're describing effectively the
same thing. And it doesn't
have to be like, people
don't have to be sad
if they tweet and a
hundred people don't show up
five people, 10 people in
a group around a table
studying to pass the certification.
It can be hugely impactful.
Absolutely. Yeah. And our groups
are not huge. I'm thinking
less than a dozen. And
you know, the maximum, I
think in a group is
14. And it's not about
how many people we are.
I just want people that
are focused com committed. And,
you know, w we know
we notice when somebody doesn't
show up, right? It's not
just like a meetup where,
you know, you can RSVP
and not show up. No,
you, you have a responsibility.
We, we count on you
to present your section of,
of the curriculum. So yeah.
Th people build relationships and,
and are very close at
the end of their, their
study groups. That's fantastic. It's
so nice to hear that,
that, it's nice for me
to learn, frankly, that Oahu
is so much more than
this top 10 list that
I was reading every, every,
every three years. It's, that's
the tip of the iceberg.
And there's a huge, huge
community, thousands and thousands of
members, hundreds of meetups, dozens,
and dozens, and dozens of
projects, all of which looking
for help that hopefully our
listeners will w will be
encouraged and go and get
involved. Yes. Yes. And I
want to clarify that secure,
that sort of, what I
do with certification is different
from us. I met, I'm
a very, very active member
volunteer at a wasp, but
secure that. So it's something
I do on the side,
but yes, please go on
the website on our Wiki
and check out the chapter.
That's closest to you start
one. If, if you don't
have one close to you,
and I even believe that
there's a virtual chapter where
they host meeting online all
the time. So yeah. Shake
it out. And if it's
more the documentation or the
projects I'm going to, not
only the flagship project, but
the incubator and the labs
project that might need help.
And there are more experimental
there. There's a lot of
fence stuff to play around
with. Very cool. Well, thank
you so much, Nancy Guy, Shay
for chatting with me today,
this has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .